>> Steve Kinney: One thing I kinda
wanna talk about real quick, is just
those general principles of testing, and
then we'll kinda jump back into this code.
Coz now we've got some
tests under our belt,
and we've got some sense around it, right?
As we saw,
I think I've at least proven a little bit.
I got more work to do on this.
I'm proven a little bit of the first
one here is that the writing test isn't
all that hard.
You just wrote four tests,
that wasn't that hard.
I'm hiding some complexity from you,
of course, but
the actual writing of the test,
not that bad.
You took two and two, you expected
it to be four., it passed, great.
So clearly,
writing tests can't be all that hard.
>> Steve Kinney: Those test paths,
we talked about that.
If I was using this code, it would pass.
And then breaking stuff out into those
too many small, no one's ever broken
their code to too many small, well-named,
easy to test functions, right?
A lot of times you have two numbers just
in your code or maybe you're doing a whole
bunch of stuff and it's just one
line in a 700 line conditional,
that's hard to test then, right?
And so what you can start to
do is pull stuff out into
these very simple functions,
like our add or multiply, or
it might be maybe we needed to title
case the heading when we rendered it.
And maybe that's just a line of like
a regex or something in a large reactor.
Component to begin to pull those things
out into very simple functions that have
arguments and give you return values you
begin to pull those pieces out, right?
And maybe you can't write tests for
the whole thing all at once,
we take more of these small pieces and
you use them as we go along.
But there's these tests
leave a lot to be desired.
And because they leave
a lot to be desired,
they do make one of my other points.
Which is, if I was to run a code coverage
analysis tool on this, which is basically
all a code coverage analysis tool
does is it starts with your test.
So code that you don't test isn't
counted in the coverage report.
It's only files that are imported by
your test that's one way to get to 100%.
Two is if we look at these tests, right?
If we just did our own like mental code
coverage report, you look at these tests,
you look at this code,
we would get 100% code coverage right?
We would everything would be great.
And life would go on and
we feel really good about everything.
That said,
there are some problems here that we have
not just not thought about at all, right?
What are you talking about?
I added two and two, everything's great.
We said that if you add two and two,
everything should be really great.
And one of the things,
both the mix of our testing and
the way we write code,
kind of interplay with each other is
thinking about what we call
the unhappy path, right?
Which is the outside world
is real problematic,
all sorts of stuff can happen, right?
And especially in JavaScript
we know there's jokes.
Python engineers make jokes about
how math works in JavaScript, and
I have considered none of
that in my tests, right?
True plus true equals two,
one plus one as a string equals 11, right?
But try to subtract one as a string,
so on and so forth.
What happens if I happen to
give you both arguments, right?
A and B, that everything works, what
happens if I only give you one, right?
There, no TypeScript here, right?
Even then you can get around
anything you use one, any, and
then the world's your oyster again.
And so
when we think about the unhappy path,
this is way to both think about our
code and also think about our tests.
And then using our test and that test
driven development that we saw before to
get us to handling all those things,
right?
And again, it will repeatedly try
all these things over and over and
over again, right?
So I said, there's all sorts
of fun things in JavaScript.
Who doesn't love, not a number, right?
And all sorts of ways that even our humble
addition function can go horribly wrong,
right?
What happens if I only
give it one argument?
What happens if I give it
null as the first argument?
What happens if I give it a string and
a number?
What happens if I give it the word potato,
right?
So on and so forth.
What happens if I try to divide by 0?
>> Speaker 2: How do you pick?
When we're writing tests,
we decided which number should we divide?
I don't know, 10, 6.
Is that related to this?
Picking your test conditions?
>> Steve Kinney: Exactly, right?
And so
step one is we thought about that initial.
Again, for adding two numbers,
fine, right?
This is the thing where there's no
method in your test library, yes and no.
But generally speaking,
there's no method in your code.
This involves that kind of intellectual
exercise when it comes down
to testing your code, right?
That is less about, well,
what method comes from the testing
library to help me do this?
It's more about, have I over the years
cultivated enough paranoia, right?
Of all the things that can go wrong,
right?
When I talk to the junior
engineers on my team and
I solve a problem like this for
them, you're so smart.
And I take that compliment, I marinate
it a little bit, but it's not true.
I've just seen more.
I've burned a week on the bug
four times in the last.
A few years, and so
now I walk in knowing looking like I
know everything that's possible to know.
So we have all these cases and there
is not a necessarily a right answer for
all of these things, right?
So we basically have three choices
about how to handle these cases.
One is we can figure a way
to fail gracefully, right?
And some of it is just a decision, right?
And you will find out in fun ways about
how your decision was wrong later, right?
No matter what decision you make,
you will not to get Kierkegaard on you,
but you will find out ways that
that doesn't work later, right?
And the next part is you will have those
tests in place so that if you make
a change to your code, you will know
that things work as you expect, right?
So you get three options fail gracefully.
And that means maybe if they pass
us the string of one, right?
You're like, who would do that?
You get it from a query pram,
it's a string.
You didn't expect it be a string or
an input field, or whatever.
Lots of ways strings get in your maths,
right?
You could choose to try to
parse it into a number, right?
You could,
if they don't give you a second argument,
you can just assume that it's zero.
It doesn't,
there's no right answer for this.
It all depends on like the situation
you're trying to solve, but
figure out some way that
the function still works, right?
Failing that, right,
you could choose to throw an error, right?
Especially if it's something that's
gonna happen at build time or
something along those are some where
you have the error handling in place.
Sometimes being, I don't know what to
do is better than letting stuff get
into a weird state, right?
The only wrong answer here is, right.
Right now, if someone passed in undefined,
we have 100% test coverage,
and I don't know what happens
on a given argument, right?
So that's where this becomes again,
that practice of going in here and
saying and
you start with what you would
like the world to be like.
We might even start out with other
good test cases just to make sure that
they work.
Coz again, the value of this test suite is
it is going to hammer at my code with all
sorts of different possibilities, right?
So we can even start
with other good cases.
It should add two negative numbers.
>> Steve Kinney: Right.
>> Steve Kinney: That should be fine.
Unless you write the arrow function
outside of the parentheses and
then it's not fine.
>> Steve Kinney: There we go,
and extra parenthesis down there.
So we can expect, add negative two and
negative two to be negative four,
and that should work.
But also, if It didn't work in a larger
case that that's good to know, right?
You start to make all those assumptions
about how your code should work.